A drone was discovered on the roof of the Japanese prime minister’s office building Wednesday, and police said a tiny level of radiation was detected next to it.
A spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Police Department said an official from the prime minister’s office found the four-propeller drone, which was about half a meter wide and equipped with what appeared to be a small camera and a plastic container. She declined to comment on the container’s contents.
Later Wednesday, a police official said that trace levels of radioactive cesium were found near the device. The amount of radiation police believe they found—about one microsievert per hour—is less than studies have found people are exposed to when flying.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was in Jakarta attending an Africa-Asia summit when the drone was found, and no injuries or damage were reported.
“The police will conduct a thorough investigation, and we will take every possible risk-management measure,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said during a regular news conference. The police official said a special unit has been set up to investigate the incident.
Mr. Suga said the government had begun looking into tightening laws governing drones earlier in the year, as Japan prepares to host next year’s Group of Seven summit and the 2020 Olympic Games.
A similar incident in Washington, D.C., also prompted the government to re-evaluate Japan’s laws pertaining to drones, he said.
In January, a small drone crash-landed on the White House grounds while President Barack Obama and the first lady were visiting India. The Secret Service said the operator was believed to be a recreational flier, but the incident highlighted the challenges of enforcing safety and security regulations as drones become more widely available to the public.
U.S. Capitol Police last week said they had arrested a person who landed a gyrocopter on the west lawn of the Capitol. A gyrocopter is a small, light single-seat craft that uses a helicopter-like propeller to provide lift and an airplane-like propeller to power lateral movement.
According to Japan’s transport ministry, no permits or licenses are required to operate drones, which have the same status under aviation law as remote-controlled toy planes. Their operation is unrestricted below an altitude of 250 meters in general airspace and below 150 meters under flight paths.